1)what is node js? what is open source cross platform?
node js is a open source cross platform run time environment.It allows the Javascript to run outside the browser.
Open-source-cross platform means running on different programming environment,operating system.

2)what is blocking vs non blocking?
blocking-it means it will run block the javascript code until the other code finishes.it executes synchronously.
nonblocking-it does not block code of javascript or other it executes without any interruptions.it executes asynchronously.

3)what is NPM?
Node Package Manager.it is a software library and installer.it includes CLI used to download and install software.it manages dependency.it can install dependency.

4)what are the modules in Node.js?
it is like set of functions you can use in code.built-in modules-this modules are built-in no vary to use installation like require().We can build our own modules.

5)What is Export,Import,Require Keyword?
export-we can send one external file to our main file like using {module.exports=nameof file}
import-as we export our file from one place to another import is like accepting that export file.
require-by using require keyword we can use built-in/outside modules to use them in our code.

6)what is the purpose of module.exports?
To send the outside file to any of the main file and can import them by using require keyword.

7)Differnece between default export and named export?
default export-it is like sending file from one place to another but only single file can send
named export-here you can send multiple names like in this brackets{} at a time.

8)How do you import a file in Nodejs?
By using import fnname=require('./filepath') it will import fnname to your main file and then we can use the fnname.

9)Difference between HTTP and HTTPS?
HTTP- HyperText Transfer Protocol.it is not secure.it does not use SSL
HTTPS- HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure.it is secure.it uses SSL which encrypt the information.

10)What is Express,how it helps to create a backend application,adavantages of using express?
express is a framework that adds more functionality than node to our app.we can use this framework in our app.it has functionalities like cors,cookieparser and much more.
advantages-routing,middleware.

11)What are different types of HTTP requests?
there are four types of HTTP requests 1)GET-we can read the data 2)POST-we can create the data 3)PUT-we can update the data 4)DELETE-we can delete the data.